docs/intro.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /intro
---

# Introduction

LocalGPT is a **local AI assistant with persistent memory, semantic search, and autonomous operation** — built in Rust, inspired by OpenClaw. A single ~27MB binary gives you a CLI, desktop app, embedded web UI, and HTTP API — all keeping your data on your machine.

## Key Features

- **Local & Private** - Single ~27MB Rust binary. All data stays on your machine. No cloud storage, no telemetry.
- **Hybrid Memory Search** - Markdown-based knowledge store with SQLite FTS5 full-text search and local vector embeddings (fastembed) for semantic search
- **Desktop App** - Native desktop GUI built with egui — chat, sessions, memory browser, and status dashboard
- **Embedded Web UI** - Browser-based chat interface served directly from the binary
- **Multi-Provider Support** - Works with Claude CLI, Anthropic API, OpenAI, and local Ollama models
- **Autonomous Heartbeat** - Daemon mode with scheduled background tasks that run automatically
- **Skills System** - Extensible skills for specialized tasks
- **Security** - Prompt injection defenses, tool approval mode, content sanitization, and workspace locking
- **Session Management** - Multi-session support with automatic context compaction
- **HTTP API & WebSocket** - RESTful API and real-time WebSocket for integrations

## Architecture Overview

```
~/.localgpt/
├── config.toml           # Configuration file
├── workspace/
│   ├── MEMORY.md         # Curated long-term knowledge
│   ├── HEARTBEAT.md      # Pending autonomous tasks
│   └── memory/
│       └── YYYY-MM-DD.md # Daily conversation logs
└── logs/
    └── agent.log         # Application logs
```

## How It Works

1. **Chat Sessions** - Start interactive conversations that maintain context
2. **Memory System** - Important information is saved to markdown files and indexed for search
3. **Tool Execution** - The AI can execute bash commands, read/write files, and search memory
4. **Heartbeat** - Background process checks `HEARTBEAT.md` for pending tasks

## Supported Models

LocalGPT automatically detects the provider based on model name prefix:

| Prefix | Provider | Examples |
|--------|----------|----------|
| `claude-cli/*` | Claude CLI | claude-cli/opus, claude-cli/sonnet |
| `anthropic/*` | Anthropic API | anthropic/claude-opus-4-5, anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-5 |
| `openai/*` | OpenAI | openai/gpt-4o, openai/gpt-4o-mini |
| Aliases | Any | opus, sonnet, gpt, gpt-mini |
| Other | Ollama | llama3, mistral, codellama |

## Next Steps

- [Installation](/docs/installation) - Install LocalGPT on your system
- [Quick Start](/docs/quick-start) - Get up and running in minutes
- [CLI Commands](/docs/cli-commands) - Learn the available commands
- [Skills System](/docs/skills) - Create and use specialized skills

Commit message:

docs: add headless/Docker build instructions for desktop feature flag

docs/intro.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /intro
---

# Introduction

LocalGPT is a **local AI assistant with persistent memory, semantic search, and autonomous operation** — built in Rust, inspired by OpenClaw. A single ~27MB binary gives you a CLI, desktop app, embedded web UI, and HTTP API — all keeping your data on your machine.

## Key Features

- **Local & Private** - Single ~27MB Rust binary. All data stays on your machine. No cloud storage, no telemetry.
- **Hybrid Memory Search** - Markdown-based knowledge store with SQLite FTS5 full-text search and local vector embeddings (fastembed) for semantic search
- **Desktop App** - Optional native desktop GUI built with egui — chat, sessions, memory browser, and status dashboard. Disable with `--no-default-features` for headless/Docker deployments.
- **Embedded Web UI** - Browser-based chat interface served directly from the binary
- **Multi-Provider Support** - Works with Claude CLI, Anthropic API, OpenAI, and local Ollama models
- **Autonomous Heartbeat** - Daemon mode with scheduled background tasks that run automatically
- **Skills System** - Extensible skills for specialized tasks
- **Security** - Prompt injection defenses, tool approval mode, content sanitization, and workspace locking
- **Session Management** - Multi-session support with automatic context compaction
- **HTTP API & WebSocket** - RESTful API and real-time WebSocket for integrations

## Architecture Overview

```
~/.localgpt/
├── config.toml           # Configuration file
├── workspace/
│   ├── MEMORY.md         # Curated long-term knowledge
│   ├── HEARTBEAT.md      # Pending autonomous tasks
│   └── memory/
│       └── YYYY-MM-DD.md # Daily conversation logs
└── logs/
    └── agent.log         # Application logs
```

## How It Works

1. **Chat Sessions** - Start interactive conversations that maintain context
2. **Memory System** - Important information is saved to markdown files and indexed for search
3. **Tool Execution** - The AI can execute bash commands, read/write files, and search memory
4. **Heartbeat** - Background process checks `HEARTBEAT.md` for pending tasks

## Supported Models

LocalGPT automatically detects the provider based on model name prefix:

| Prefix | Provider | Examples |
|--------|----------|----------|
| `claude-cli/*` | Claude CLI | claude-cli/opus, claude-cli/sonnet |
| `anthropic/*` | Anthropic API | anthropic/claude-opus-4-5, anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-5 |
| `openai/*` | OpenAI | openai/gpt-4o, openai/gpt-4o-mini |
| Aliases | Any | opus, sonnet, gpt, gpt-mini |
| Other | Ollama | llama3, mistral, codellama |

## Next Steps

- [Installation](/docs/installation) - Install LocalGPT on your system
- [Quick Start](/docs/quick-start) - Get up and running in minutes
- [CLI Commands](/docs/cli-commands) - Learn the available commands
- [Skills System](/docs/skills) - Create and use specialized skills
